Astro KPO cleanup (#3505)
astronomer/docs: astro/kubernetespodoperator.md

    )
```

> ## Launch a Pod in an external cluster

Reviewer: yeah, cool with single set. Just the instructions are not in line with the best practices. Since, `kubeconfig` file contains secrets, it is not recommended to include/mount it in the Astro project. Rather it should be used as part of the `kubernetes cluster` connection. See [this page](https://www.notion.so/astronomerio/KPO-to-run-Pods-in-an-external-K8s-cluster-ee56c97ce10849b2afcd4616ad2aac45?pvs=4#416c235385dc4eebbc55c699580d17ad).

To launch a Pod in an external cluster from an Astro Deployment, you have to:

> - Create a [network connection](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/networking-overview) between the Astro Deployment and your external cluster.

Reviewer: after this step, there should be a step to create a [role](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#role-example) and [role-binding](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#rolebinding-and-clusterrolebinding) in the target K8s cluster. If the user you are using to connect to the external cluster is the owner of that cluster, then role and role-binding on the target cluster can be skipped.

> - Add a `kubeconfig` file for the external cluster to your Astro project `include` folder, then deploy your changes to Astro.

Reviewer: the `kubeconfig` file needs to be edited, to include a `--profile` or `--role` that will be used to access your K8s cluster.

    )
```

## Launch a Pod in an external cluster

> If some of your tasks require specific resources such as a GPU, you might want to run them in a different cluster than your Airflow instance. In setups where both clusters are used by the same AWS or GCP account, this can be managed with roles and permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If some of your tasks require specific resources such as a GPU, you might want to run them in a different cluster than your Airflow instance. In setups where both clusters are used by the same AWS or GCP account, you can manage separate clusters with roles and permissions.
```

:::

### Prerequisites

- A [network connection](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/networking-overview) between your Astro Deployment and your external cluster.

### Step 1: Set up your external cluster

1. [Create an EKS cluster IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/service_IAM_role.html#create-service-role) with a unique name and add the following permission policies:

    - `AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy`
    - `AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy`
    - `AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly`

2. [Update the trust policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/directoryservice/latest/admin-guide/edit_trust.html) of this new role to include the [workload identity](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/authorize-deployments-to-your-cloud) of your Deployment. This step ensures that the role can be assumed by your Deployment.

    ```json
    {
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
        "Effect": "Allow",
        "Principal": {
            "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<aws account id>:<your user>",
            "Service": [
                "ec2.amazonaws.com",
                "eks.amazonaws.com"
            ]
        },
        "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
        }
    ]
    }
    ```

> 3. If you don't already have a cluster, [create a new EKS cluster](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-cluster.html) and assign the newly created role to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If you don't already have a cluster, [create a new EKS cluster](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-cluster.html) and assign the new role to it.
```

    ```

    This command copies information relating to the new cluster into your existing `KubeConfig` file at `~/.kube/config`.

2. Check this file before making it available to Airflow. It should appear similar to the following configuration. Add any missing configurations to the file.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    clusters:
    - cluster:
        certificate-authority-data: <your certificate>
        server: <your AWS server address>
    name: <arn of your cluster>
    contexts:
    - context:
        cluster: <arn of your cluster>
        user: <arn of your cluster>
    name: <arn of your cluster>
    current-context: <arn of your cluster>
    kind: Config
    preferences: {}
    users:
    - name: <arn of your cluster>
    user:
        exec:
        apiVersion: client.authentication.k8s.io/v1alpha1
        args:
        - --region
        - <your cluster's AWS region>
        - eks
        - get-token
        - --cluster-name
        - <name of your cluster>
        - --profile
        - default
        command: aws
        interactiveMode: IfAvailable
        provideClusterInfo: false
    ```

### Step 3: Create a Kubernetes cluster connection

> Astronomer recommends creating an Kubernetes cluster connection because it's more secure than adding an unencrypted `kubeconfig` file directly to your Astro project. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Astronomer recommends creating a Kubernetes cluster connection because it's more secure than adding an unencrypted `kubeconfig` file directly to your Astro project. 
```

1. Convert the `kubeconfig` configuration you retrieved from your cluster to JSON format.
2. In either the Airflow UI or the Astro environment manager, create a new **Kubernetes Cluster Connection** connection. In the **Kube config (JSON format)** field, paste the `kubeconfig` configuration you retrieved from your cluster after converting it from `yaml` to `json` format.
4. Click **Save**.

You can now specify this connection in the configuration of any KubernetesPodOperator task that needs to access your external cluster. 

### Step 4: Configure your task

In your KubernetesPodOperator task configuration, ensure that you set `cluster-context` and `namespace` for your remote cluster. In the following example, the task launches a Pod in an external cluster based on the configuration defined in the `k8s` connection.

> ```python
> run_on_EKS = KubernetesPodOperator(
>         task_id="run_on_EKS",
>         kubernetes_conn_id="k8s", 
>         cluster_context="<your-cluster-id>",
>         namespace="<your-namespace>",
>         name="example_pod",
>         image="ubuntu",
>         cmds=["bash", "-cx"],
>         arguments=["echo hello"],
>         get_logs=True,
>         startup_timeout_seconds=240,
>     )
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```python
run_on_EKS = KubernetesPodOperator(
    task_id="run_on_EKS",
    kubernetes_conn_id="k8s", 
    cluster_context="<your-cluster-id>",
    namespace="<your-namespace>",
    name="example_pod",
    image="ubuntu",
    cmds=["bash", "-cx"],
    arguments=["echo hello"],
    get_logs=True,
    startup_timeout_seconds=240,
)
```
```

Reviewer 3: just formatting :)

### Example DAG

> The following DAG utilizes several classes from the Amazon provider package to dynamically spin up and delete Pods for each task in a newly created node group. If your remote Kubernetes cluster already has a node group available, you only need to define your task in the KubernetesPodOperator itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following DAG uses several classes from the Amazon provider package to dynamically spin up and delete Pods for each task in a newly created node group. If your remote Kubernetes cluster already has a node group available, you only need to define your task in the KubernetesPodOperator itself.
```

Reviewer 3: Suggesting to also link `Amazon provider package` to the registry here: https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-amazon/versions/latest  :)

The example DAG contains 5 consecutive tasks:

> - Create a node group according to the users' specifications (in the example using GPU resources).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create a node group according to the users' specifications (For the example that uses GPU resources).
```
Maybe I'm misreading the parenthetical, is this for only the example with the GPU resources? if so, maybe actually 

- In the example that uses GPU resources, create a node group according to the users' specifications

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    clusters:
    - cluster:
        certificate-authority-data: <your certificate>
        server: <your AWS server address>
    name: <arn of your cluster>
    contexts:
    - context:
        cluster: <arn of your cluster>
        user: <arn of your cluster>
    name: <arn of your cluster>
    current-context: <arn of your cluster>
    kind: Config
    preferences: {}
    users:
    - name: <arn of your cluster>
    user:
        exec:
        apiVersion: client.authentication.k8s.io/v1alpha1
        args:
        - --region
        - <your cluster's AWS region>
        - eks
        - get-token
        - --cluster-name
        - <name of your cluster>
        - --profile
        - default
        command: aws
        interactiveMode: IfAvailable
        provideClusterInfo: false
    ```

### Step 3: Create a Kubernetes cluster connection

Astronomer recommends creating an Kubernetes cluster connection because it's more secure than adding an unencrypted `kubeconfig` file directly to your Astro project. 

> 1. Create a `kubeconfig` configuration that grants Airflow access to your external cluster. See

Author: ```suggestion
1. Convert the `kubeconfig` configuration you retrieved from your cluster to JSON format.
```

> 2. In either the Airflow UI or the Astro environment manager, create a new **Kubernetes** connection. In the **Kube Config** field, paste the `kubeconfig` configuration you retrieved from your cluster.

Author: @manmeetkaur Is this connection type the same as the one you listed? I might submit an issue to change the name in Astro, I think it's confusing that we rename fields and connection names. For now I'll make your edits since most users are likely to configure connections in the Airflow UI.
![Screenshot 2024-03-08 at 9 35 03 AM](https://github.com/astronomer/docs/assets/74574233/d394836f-1311-4812-b79b-7f5642c9cc0d)

> 3. Set the **In Cluster** field to `False`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is a checkbox in the connection and by default is for external cluster (see screenshot above). So we can leave it unchecked.

> 4. Click **Create connection**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Save**.
```

You can now specify this connection in the configuration of any KubernetesPodOperator task that needs to access your external cluster. 

### Step 4: Configure your task

> In your KubernetesPodOperator task configuration, ensure that you set `in_cluster=false` and `config_file = <your-kubeconfig-file>` in your task configuration. In the following example, the task launches a Pod in an external cluster based on the configuration defined in the `k8s` connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your KubernetesPodOperator task configuration, ensure that you set `cluster-context` and `namespace` for your remote cluster. In the following example, the task launches a Pod in an external cluster based on the configuration defined in the `k8s` connection.
```

```python
run_on_EKS = KubernetesPodOperator(
        task_id="run_on_EKS",
        kubernetes_conn_id="k8s", 

>         cluster_context="<your-cluster-id>",

Reviewer: actually, this value can also be put in the k8s connection. Would leave it to you how you want to mention it in docs. I use it in the KPO code itself, makes it easier to read the code.

>         namespace="astro-remote-kpo",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        namespace="<your-namespace>",
```
